The President: Hi, everybody.
I've talked a lot lately
about why new trade deals
are important
to our economy.
Today, I want to talk about
why new trade deals are
important to our values.
They're vital to
middle-class economics --
the idea that this country
does best when everyone gets
their fair shot, everyone
does their fair share,
and everyone plays by
the same set of rules.
These are simple values.
They're American values.
And we strive to make sure
our own economy lives up to
them, especially after a
financial crisis brought
about by recklessness
and greed.
But we also live in a world
where our workers have to
compete on a global scale.
Right now, on an
uneven playing field.
Where the rules
are different.
And that's why America has
to write the rules of the
global economy -- so that
our workers can compete
on a level playing field.
I understand why a lot of
people are skeptical
of trade deals.
Past deals didn't always
live up to the hype.
They didn't include the
kind of protections
we're fighting for today.
We have lessons to
learn from the past
-- and we have
learned them.
But trying to stop a global
economy at our shores
isn't one of
those lessons.
We can't surrender to the
future -- because we are
meant to win the future.
If America doesn't shape the
rules of the global economy
today, to benefit
our workers,
while our economy is in
a position of new global
strength, then China
will write those rules.
I've seen towns where
manufacturing collapsed,
plants closed down,
and jobs dried up.
And I refuse to accept
that for our workers.
Because I know when the
playing field is level,
nobody can beat us.
That's why, when
I took office,
we started thinking about
how to revamp trade in a way
that actually works
for working Americans.
And that's what we've done
with a new trade partnership
we're negotiating in
the Asia-Pacific --
home to the world's
fastest-growing markets.
It's the highest-standard
trade agreement in history.
It's got strong provisions
for workers and the
environment --
provisions that,
unlike in past agreements,
are actually enforceable.
If you want in, you have
to meet these standards.
If you don't,
then you're out.
Once you're a part
of this partnership,
if you violate your
responsibilities,
there are actually
consequences.
And because it would
include Canada and Mexico,
it fixes a lot of what was
wrong with NAFTA, too.
So this isn't a
race to the bottom,
for lower wages and
working conditions.
The trade agreements I'm
negotiating will drive
a race to the top.
And we're making sure
American workers can
retool through training programs
and community colleges,
and use new skills to
transition into new jobs.
If I didn't think this was
the right thing to do for
working families, I wouldn't
be fighting for it.
We've spent the past six
years trying to rescue
the economy, retool
the auto industry,
and revitalize American
manufacturing.
And if there were ever an
agreement that undercut that
progress, or hurt those
workers, I wouldn't sign it.
My entire presidency is
about helping working
families recover from
recession and rebuild for
the future.
As long as I'm President,
that's what I'll keep
fighting to do.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.